Young men versus old men

Internet commenters, Louis CK, the differences might be from selection bias (the old men that get heard are nicer), natural development (men get nicer as they age, but not by choice), different circumstances (old men have less to prove), or else they actually choose to get nicer. We should learn from our elders. don't be sickenlingly sweet (saccharine?) but be positive. the negativity of some popular internet communities bothers me and makes me want to withdraw. a topic for another day.


Kerbal space program?


The remembering self versus the experiencing self versus many selves


What is government? Monopoly on violence, represents the people (even a dictator does), has laws (uses the monopoly on violence)?, recognized by other states?



Remembering things: pieces fitting into webs, narratives (thinking aboout how narratives were not enough to remember the stories in the disappearing spoon - a concluding outline diagram would have been nice)


orbital mechanics delta v something else
multistage rocket efficiency (plot?)


hyper moore's law of cell phone chips


moral reference points. "Suicide is the leading cause of death among 16 year olds" (probably false) Is this a good or bad thing? Well, good and bad are relative terms. Even if you use them categorically, there is still a reference zero between them. It all depends on what you hold constant. ....


ugh. I'm pretty sure there was a second idea. Oh well. :(
























I sit in my seat. I look out the window. The landscape is flat, draped in smog. My thoughts return to the seat. It's warm and comfortable but pales compared to Amtrak. My sister sleeps beside me. She has curled up in her seat, in a contorted shape that would appear painful were it not for her snoozes emanating softly.






































EXPECTATIONS

What is unhappiness, besides unfulfilled expectations? A rock expects nothing; thus, a rock cannot be unhappy. You can crush a rock literally, but not figuratively.

I expected Ted to die. He died. I was sad. Why was I sad if I had expected it? QED!

OR CAN IT?!?!?!? DUM DE DUM! No, it can't. Forging onward, 