Journalists aren’t known for their attention to detail, but there’s one particular topic that they seem to universally get wrong: IPOs.

Tonight I witnessed yet another debacle of IPO anti-logic while watching Behind the Counter: Inside Chipotle. To illustrate Chipotle’s success, the episode brags:

The day Chipotle went public… the stock went wild, doubling in one day, the second-best restaurant IPO of all time.

If your company IPOs for $200 million and hits $400 million by the end of the day, does that mean your company’s prospects have magically doubled in one day? Probably not. What it really means is that your investment bank underpriced your shares by $200 million, giving away all that money to its clients and itself (on top of the hefty 5% fee they already charged you).

A strong IPO ‘pop’ says almost nothing about the strength of a company. Boston Market, the record holder for biggest restaurant IPO pop of all time, saw its shares rise 143% the day of its IPO, but filed for bankruptcy a mere five years later. Fresh Choice rose 91% on its first day of trading, but also landed in bankruptcy court after just 11 years.

The figure that truly measures the health of a company is its value, not its percentange changes. At the end of the day, a $500 million company down 10% is still worth more than a $100 million company up 100%.

Another example of journalistic confusion is Facebook’s 2012 IPO. Widely heralded as a flop, Facebook’s IPO saw its stock price end the day at about the same level as it started.

What so many journalists don’t realize is that in a perfect world, this is exactly how IPOs should work! Investment banks would peer into their crystal balls, divine the correct price, and sell the shares without any wild price swings.

What’s even more mind-boggling is that as Facebook shares fell in the days after the IPO, journalists painted this as bad news for Facebook. This is about as wrong as you can be! Given that Facebook’s shares were overpriced, the best possible outcome for Facebook was to sell a bunch before the plunge.

Today, nearly two years after Facebook’s so-called ‘disastrous’ IPO, the company’s valuation has grown about 40%. It’s yet another example of IPO pops having zero predictive power of a company’s future performance.

As a scientist, I’m always on the lookout for explanations of my observations. It’s not just enough to notice that journalists always get IPOs wrong; it’s also worth asking why.

Unfortunately, I think the answer originates in journalism’s search for a simple narrative. If I tell you that Chipotle IPOed for $300 million, what would that mean to you? Is it a good number or a bad number? Did Chipotle win or did they lose? Without context, it’s hard to answer. It takes some additional work for both the journalist and the reader to establish a narrative. But if I tell you that Chipotle’s IPO stock rose 100%, now what might you say? “Chipotle goes up!” “Chipotle beats expectations!” “Chipotle is desirable!” The narratives practically build themselves. It’s perfect for a lazy journalist or a lazy reader.

Sadly, the easiest narratives are often not the truest.

Reader beware.